add FAQ page (#53)
tikv/website: content/docs/3.0/faq/faq.md

## How is TiKV strongly-consistent?

Strong consistency means all replicas return the same value when queried for the attribute of an object. TiKV uses the [Raft consensus algorithm](https://raft.github.io/) to ensure consistency among multiple replicas. TiKV allows a collection of machines to work as a coherent group that can survive the failures of some of its members.

## Does TiKV support distributed transactions?

Yes. The transaction model in TiKV is inspired by Google’s Percolator, a paper published in 2006. It’s mainly a two-phase commit protocol with some practical optimizations. This model relies on a timestamp allocator to assign monotone increasing timestamp for each transaction, so the conflicts can be detected.  

## Does TiKV have ACID semantics?

Yes. ACID semantics are guaranteed in TiKV:

* Atomicity: Each transaction in TiKV is "all or nothing": if one part of the transaction fails, then the entire transaction fails, and the database state is left unchanged. TiKV guarantees atomicity in each and every situation, including power failures, errors, and crashes. 

> * Consistency: TiKV ensures that any transaction brings the database from one valid state to another. Any data written to the TiKV database must be valid according to all defined rules, including constraints, cascades, triggers, and any combination thereof. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Consistency: TiKV ensures that any transaction brings the database from one valid state to another. Any data written to the TiKV database must be valid according to all defined rules.
```

iirc we don't support the other things (Also TiDB doesn't support triggers, why are we saying it does here?)

> * Isolation: TiKV provides snapshot isolation (SI), snapshot isolation with lock (SQL statement: SELECT ... FOR UPDATE), and externally consistent reads and writes in distributed transactions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Isolation: TiKV provides snapshot isolation (SI), snapshot isolation with lock, and externally consistent reads and writes in distributed transactions. 
```

Nope we don't do SQL in TiKV! :)

> * Durability: TiKV allows a collection of machines to work as a coherent group that can survive the failures of some of its members. So in TiKV, once a transaction has been committed, it will remain so, even in the event of power loss, crashes, or errors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Durability: TiKV allows a collection of machines to work as a coherent group that can survive the failures of a minority of its members. So in TiKV, once a transaction has been committed, it will remain so, even in the event of power loss, crashes, or errors. 
```

## How are transactions in TiKV lock-free?

TiKV has an optimistic transaction model, which means the client will buffer all the writes within a transaction, and when the client calls commit function, the writes will be packed and sent to the servers. If there is no conflict, the writes which are the key-value pairs with specific version are written into the database, and can be read by other transactions.

## Can I use TiKV as a key-value store?

Yes. For now, we have a [TiKV driver for Go](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/tree/master/store/tikv). You are welcome to develop drivers in other languages!

> ## How does TiKV compare to traditional relational databases like Oracle or MySQL?

Reviewer 2: No, you should not compare tikv to oracle or mysql.

Author: What do you suggest? Remove this question?

Reviewer 2: I suggest to answer it with “TiKV is a distributed transactional key-value database, while Oracle and MySQL are relational databases. TiDB may be more suitable to be compared with them."

Author: > TiDB may be more suitable to be compared with them.
In this case I don't think this question is worth listing here... So I suggest removing it.

> TiKV scores in horizontal scalability while still maintains the traditional relational database features. You can easily increase the capacity or balance the load by adding more machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiKV is horizontally scalable while maintaining many traditional relational database features. You can easily increase the capacity or balance the load by adding more machines.
```

## How does TiKV compare to NoSQL databases like Cassandra, HBase, or MongoDB?

> TiKV is as scalable as NoSQL databases but features in the usability and functionality of traditional SQL databases, such as SQL syntax and consistent distributed transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiKV is scalable, as NoSQL databases like to advertise, while including features like externally consistent distributed transactions and good support for stateless query layers such as TiSpark (Spark), Titan (Redis), or TiDB (MySQL).
```

## What is the recommended number of replicas in the TiKV cluster? Is it better to keep the minimum number for high availability?

> Use 3 replicas for testing. If you increase the number of replicas, the performance declines but it is more secure. Whether to configure more replicas depends on the specific business needs.

Reviewer: This doesn't really answer the question. Maybe this is better?

```suggestion
You should never operate a TiKV cluster with under 3 nodes in a production scenario. Depending on infrastructure, workload, and resiliency needs, you may wish to increase this.
```

Eventually, this should become it's own page.

Reviewer: @dcalvin PTAL

## If a node is down, will the service be affected? How long?

> TiKV uses Raft to synchronize data among multiple replicas and guarantees the strong consistency of data. If one replica goes wrong, the other replicas can guarantee data security. The default number of replicas in each Region is 3. Based on the Raft protocol, a leader is elected in each Region, and if a single leader fails, a follower is soon elected as Region leader after a maximum of 2 * lease time (lease time is 10 seconds).

Reviewer: I don't think this answer actually answers the question, does it? It just says "Yes your data is secure" it doesn't say that the service should remain available (potentially after a short reelection time)

Author: Right! @youjiali1995 @hicqu  Can you help "re-answer" this question?

Reviewer 2: Besides, we usually say "safety" instead of "security". "security" means your data won't be compromised by hackers, "safety" means your data won't suffer from corruption or loss.

## Is the Range of the Key data table divided before data access?

No. It differs from the table splitting rules of MySQL. In TiKV, the table Range is dynamically split based on the size of Region.

## How does Region split?

> Region is not divided in advance, but it follows a Region split mechanism. When the Region size exceeds the value of the `region_split_size` or `region-split-keys` parameters, split is triggered. After the split, the information is reported to PD.

Reviewer: Are the parameter names *actually* this inconsistent? (`_` vs `-`)?

Author: Good catch. It's region-split-size

- Each CF has an individual write-buffer and the size is controlled by the `write-buffer-size` parameter.

## What are the TiKV scenarios that take up high I/O, memory, CPU, and exceed the parameter configuration?

Writing or reading a large volume of data in TiKV takes up high I/O, memory and CPU. Executing very complex queries costs a lot of memory and CPU resources, such as the scenario that generates large intermediate result sets.

## Does TiKV have the `innodb_flush_log_trx_commit` parameter like MySQL, to guarantee the security of data?

Yes. Currently, the standalone storage engine uses two RocksDB instances. One instance is used to store the raft-log. When the `sync-log` parameter in TiKV is set to true, each commit is mandatorily flushed to the raft-log. If a crash occurs, you can restore the KV data using the raft-log.

## Does TiDB have a InnoDB memcached plugin like MySQL which can directly use the KV interface and does not need the independent cache?

> TiKV supports calling the interface separately. Theoretically, you can take an instance as the cache. Because TiDB is a distributed relational database, we do not support TiKV separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiKV supports calling the interface separately. Theoretically, you can take an instance as the cache.
```

TiDB isn't relevant here. :)

## What is the recommended server configuration for WAL storage, such as SSD, RAID level, cache strategy of RAID card, NUMA configuration, file system, I/O scheduling strategy of the operating system?

WAL belongs to ordered writing, and currently, we don't have separate configuration for it. Recommended configuration is as follows:

- SSD
- RAID 10 preferred
- Cache strategy of RAID card and I/O scheduling strategy of the operating system: currently no specific best practices; you can use the default configuration in Linux 7 or later
- NUMA: no specific suggestion; for memory allocation strategy, you can use `interleave = all`
- File system: ext4

> ## Can Raft + multiple replicas in the TiKV architecture achieve absolute data security? Is it necessary to apply the most strict mode (`sync-log = true`) to a standalone storage?

Reviewer: What is a standalone storage?

> a standalone storage?

Author: A standalone TiKV

---
title: FAQ
description: FAQs about TiKV
menu:
    nav:
        parent: Docs
        weight: 5
    docs:
        weight: 5
---

## What is TiKV?

TiKV is a distributed Key-Value database that features in geo-replication, horizontal scalability, consistent distributed transactions and coprocessor support. 

## How do TiDB and TiKV work together? What is the relationship between the two?

TiDB works as the SQL layer and TiKV works as the Key-Value layer. TiDB provides TiKV the SQL enablement and turns TiKV into a NewSQL database. TiDB and TiKV work together to be as scalable as a NoSQL database while maintains the ACID transactions of a relational database.

## Why do you have separate layers?

Inspired by Google F1 and Spanner, TiDB and TiKV adopt a highly-layered architecture. This architecture supports pluggable storage drivers and engines, which powers you to customize your database solutions based on your own business requirements. Meanwhile, this architecture makes it easy to debug, update, tune, and maintain. You won’t have to go through the whole system just to find and fix a bug in one module.

## How do I run TiKV?

> For further information, see [Quick Start](../tasks/getting-started.md) for deploying a TiKV testing cluster, or [Deploy TiKV](../tasks/deploy/introduction.md) for deploying TiKV in production.

Reviewer: Please check these links, I think they won't work.

## When to use TiKV?

TiKV is at your service if your applications require:

* Horizontal scalability (including writes)
* Strong consistency
* Support for distributed ACID transactions

> ## When not to use TiKV?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When is TiKV inappropriate?
```

TiKV is not yet ready to deal with very low latency reads and writes.

## How does TiKV scale?

Grow TiKV as your business grows. You can increase the capacity simply by adding more machines. You can run TiKV across physical, virtual, container, and cloud environments.

> PD([Placement Driver](https://github.com/pingcap/pd))  periodically checks replication constraints and balances the load, and it handles data movement automatically. When PD notices that the load is too high, it will rebalance data.

Reviewer 3: PD ([Placement Driver](https://github.com/pingcap/pd)) periodically checks replication constraints and balances the load, and it handles data movement automatically. When PD notices that the load is too high, it will rebalance data.
```suggestion
PD ([Placement Driver](https://github.com/pingcap/pd)) periodically checks replication constraints and balances the load, and it handles data movement automatically. When PD notices that the load is too high, it will rebalance data.
```

* Consistency: TiKV ensures that any transaction brings the database from one valid state to another. Any data written to the TiKV database must be valid according to all defined rules.
* Isolation: TiKV provides snapshot isolation (SI), snapshot isolation with lock, and externally consistent reads and writes in distributed transactions.
* Durability: TiKV allows a collection of machines to work as a coherent group that can survive the failures of some of its members. So in TiKV, once a transaction has been committed, it will remain so, even in the event of power loss, crashes, or errors. 

## How are transactions in TiKV lock-free?

TiKV has an optimistic transaction model, which means the client will buffer all the writes within a transaction, and when the client calls commit function, the writes will be packed and sent to the servers. If there is no conflict, the writes which are the key-value pairs with specific version are written into the database, and can be read by other transactions.

## Can I use TiKV as a key-value store?

> Yes. For now, we have a stable [TiKV driver for Go](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/tree/master/store/tikv). There are also drivers for [other languages in development](../reference/clients/introduction.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, that is what TiKV is!
```

## How does TiKV compare to NoSQL databases like Cassandra, HBase, or MongoDB?

TiKV is as scalable as NoSQL databases like to advertise, while including features like externally consistent distributed transactions and good support for stateless query layers such as TiSpark (Spark), Titan (Redis), or TiDB (MySQL)

## What is the recommended number of replicas in the TiKV cluster? Is it better to keep the minimum number for high availability?

Use 3 replicas for testing. If you increase the number of replicas, the performance declines but it is more secure. Whether to configure more replicas depends on the specific business needs.

## If a node is down, will the service be affected? How long?

TiKV uses Raft to synchronize data among multiple replicas (by default 3 replicas for each Region). If one replica goes wrong, the other replicas can guarantee data safety. Based on the Raft protocol, if a single leader fails as the node goes down, a follower in another node is soon elected as the Region leader after a maximum of 2 * lease time (lease time is 10 seconds).

## Is the Range of the Key data table divided before data access?

> No. It differs from the table splitting rules of MySQL. In TiKV, the table Range is dynamically split based on the size of Region.

Reviewer 3: I think current version does split by table by default.

Author: Can you suggest the text?

Reviewer: @disksing Note these docs are TiKV specific, and don't concern ourselves with TiDB.

## How does Region split?

Region is not divided in advance, but it follows a Region split mechanism. When the Region size exceeds the value of the `region-split-size` or `region-split-keys` parameters, split is triggered. After the split, the information is reported to PD.

## What are the features of TiKV block cache?

TiKV implements the Column Family (CF) feature of RocksDB. By default, the KV data is eventually stored in the 3 CFs (default, write and lock) within RocksDB.

- The default CF stores real data and the corresponding parameter is in `[rocksdb.defaultcf]`. The write CF stores the data version information (MVCC) and index-related data, and the corresponding parameter is in `[rocksdb.writecf]`. The lock CF stores the lock information and the system uses the default parameter.
- The Raft RocksDB instance stores Raft logs. The default CF mainly stores Raft logs and the corresponding parameter is in `[raftdb.defaultcf]`.

> - Each CF has an individual block-cache to cache data blocks and improve RocksDB read speed. The size of block-cache is controlled by the `block-cache-size` parameter. A larger value of the parameter means more hot data can be cached and is more favorable to read operation. At the same time, it consumes more system memory.

Reviewer 3: I think now block cache of CFs are merged together.

Author: How about:

"CFs have a shared block-cache to cache data blocks and improve RocksDB read speed."

Reviewer 3: LGTM

Yes. Currently, the standalone storage engine uses two RocksDB instances. One instance is used to store the raft-log. When the `sync-log` parameter in TiKV is set to true, each commit is mandatorily flushed to the raft-log. If a crash occurs, you can restore the KV data using the raft-log.

## What is the recommended server configuration for WAL storage, such as SSD, RAID level, cache strategy of RAID card, NUMA configuration, file system, I/O scheduling strategy of the operating system?

WAL belongs to ordered writing, and currently, we don't have separate configuration for it. Recommended configuration is as follows:

- SSD
- RAID 10 preferred
- Cache strategy of RAID card and I/O scheduling strategy of the operating system: currently no specific best practices; you can use the default configuration in Linux 7 or later
- NUMA: no specific suggestion; for memory allocation strategy, you can use `interleave = all`
- File system: ext4

## Can Raft + multiple replicas in the TiKV architecture achieve absolute data safety? Is it necessary to apply the most strict mode (`sync-log = true`) to a standalone storage?

> Data is redundantly copied between TiKV nodes using the [Raft consensus algorithm](https://raft.github.io/) to ensure recoverability should a node failure occur. Only when the data has been written into more than 50% of the replicas will the application return ACK (two out of three nodes). However, theoretically, two nodes might crash. Therefore, except for scenarios with less strict requirement on data security but extreme requirement on performance, it is strongly recommended that you enable the sync-log mode.

Reviewer 3: copied -> replicated?
